---
layout: post
title: Blog Post on Cross Cultural Differences
---

Because I won a scholarship to travel to Armenia for the OPIT program, I have two blog posts that I need to write during my stay here. These blog posts undoubtedly need to be more professional that what I have been posting. Below you can read the first of two for my program-related blogs. This blog is about the cultural differences that I've noticed in Armenia and how they differ from my experience in Kyrgyzstan last summer, as well as how they remind me of my own family in the U.S.

Instead of comparing Armenia to the U.S., I instead initially started off by comparing Armenia to Kyrgyzstan. Last summer, I spent two months living in Kyrgyzstan, which was the longest consecutive duration of time I’ve ever spent abroad. Armenia will come close but not quite top that at a six-week stay. Hence, I initially assumed that these two experiences, and maybe even countries, would be comparable. I couldn’t have been more wrong.

Surprisingly, living in Armenia reminds me more of living in the U.S. than it does Kyrgyzstan. How does that make sense if Armenia is closer in proximity to Kyrgyzstan than it is America? This was the first question I asked myself. The answer being – culture. While Armenia reminds me of Kyrgyzstan, historically, in the sense that it was formerly part of the Soviet Union and is, therefore, a newly established country, the cultural norms that I’ve been exposed to here remind me a lot more of my own family in the U.S. than they do those to which I was exposed to in Kyrgyzstan.

I am a fifth generation Italian on my mom’s side of the family. Essentially what that means is, although I cannot speak Italian and have no idea what it must be like living in Italy, my family is very Italian in not only how they cook, but more importantly, in how they behave. And if Italian is the wrong cultural description to use, I’d instead venture to say “Italian-American.” In any event, the cultural norms that Armenians follow, particularly when it comes to family, are strikingly similar to those of my Italian-American family in a way that I never would have preconceived.

While living in Armenia, I am taking Russian lessons with a tutor. She explained to me that because of Armenia’s location, it is not exactly a European country, nor is it Asian. Therefore, it has a unique set of values that are a crosshair between traditional eastern values and progressive European values. There still exists a lot of corruption within the government. Culturally, Yerevan feels like a small town because everyone seems to know – or want to know – everything about everyone. As a result, high value is placed on what other people think about one another. This at times results in people pretending to be someone they are not. Fortunately, as a foreigner, I like to believe that these norms do not apply to me, although there is no way for me to be entirely sure, especially because I don’t understand the Armenian language.

My mom’s family loves to sit around and talk about other people – some of it favorable, some of it not as much. They often tell stories about chains of events that happened at work, or in another social setting, perhaps even complaining, but nonetheless feeling the need to recall in as much detail as possible what happened and how it made them feel.

People in Armenia definitely like to be well informed of others and will ask very many questions to make sure that they know the latest about a current situation. The majority of Armenians seem to be very feeling oriented people and most people have opinions about various subject matters. Most Armenians identify very strongly with their culture with most being proud to be Armenian. They consider good relationships with family and friends to be above all else. 

The constant social interconnectivity between people in Armenia is one of the most strikingly similar characteristics that I notice within my own family. There exists this need to keep everyone as well informed as possible about what is going on at all times. You should know everyone’s schedule. In Armenia, my host family asks me the same four questions that my mom’s family would back home: Where are you? What are you doing? Who are you with? When will be home?

As a university student, it’s been awhile since I’ve lived with my mom or have seen my mom’s family on a once a week basis minimum, like I did when I was growing up. (In fact, we even had a day named after it – “Wacky Wednesday.”) Therefore, I have gotten away from this constant social interconnectivity that I had previously, although somewhat begrudgingly, been so accustomed to. Coming to Armenia and rekindling those same set of norms was initially challenging for me, especially because my host family in Kyrgyzstan gave me a lot more freedom to do whatever I wanted without feeling the need to know where I was. In fact, most of the time, they probably didn’t know where I was. They just knew that I would be home for dinner. Point in case, it has taken me some time to readapt to being cognizant of informing my host family where I am at all times. Fortunately, however, based on my background, this norm isn’t a completely foreign concept to me.

In line with informing my host family as to my whereabouts, I spend much more time with my host family here in Armenia that I ever spent with my host family in Kyrgyzstan. It actually feels as if I have been adopted into their family. My host brother constantly invites me to go out with his friends. In fact, I spend more time talking to him on a daily basis than I ever have my own brother. The only down side of this is I don’t feel like I’ve made as many friends as I did in Kyrgyzstan, since I tended to be out walking around by myself most of the time, and naturally made friends as a result of that. However, Armenia has afforded me two unique opportunities. First, I have finally had the opportunity to walk around outside at night without worrying about my safety as a female, because I’m never alone. Second, I have had the opportunity to become much more intimately acquainted with the family and friends I do have because I tend to spend time with the same people most of the time. In fact, it feels like we’ve known each other for years. We even have our own inside jokes. 

Another communication style that I’ve noted does not pertain to the frequency or the content of the conversation, but to the intonation. I’ve noticed that it may seem like my coworkers are yelling at each other when they are talking to each other – particularly when it comes to work-related matters – because they will raise their voices, nearly shouting, and speak rather emphatically. Recently, it occurred to me that maybe if I hadn’t grow up in an Italian family, I would be alarmed by this communication style and perceive it as rude, maybe even disrespectful. But I already know that is simply how they communicate and they don’t mean anything by it. 

One of the other qualities that Armenians share with my culturally Italian family is how affectionate and loving they are towards one another. My host brothers are in their twenties and my host mom still cuddles them and hugs and kisses them like they are babies. My mom does the same thing to my brother and me and we are similarly both in our twenties. My grandmother is especially like this and still feels that all of her grandchildren, and even her own children, are her babies, despite how old they may be. A friend that I made here explained to me that because Armenians are Christians, and love is at the base of Christianity – and the human existence really – Armenians are very loving. This is especially seen in romantic relationships. Out of all of the countries that I’ve traveled to, I have never seen as many public displays of affectionate as I have between Armenian couples. When people ask me what the most surprising thing I’ve noted in Armenia has been, I reply by saying that I am not used to seeing so many couples freely making out in public and not caring who sees. Most of my counterparts seem to be rather surprised that most countries, particularly the U.S., do not follow this norm.

Ultimately, spending time in Armenia has made me realize that my cultural portfolio is more diverse that I ever realized. I say that I am simply American and don’t have much cultural heritage other than that, but this trip had made me realize that I do, in fact, have a cultural heritage that not only sets me apart from most other Americans I know, but likewise helps me to understand and empathize with people in other cultures who may hold more traditional values. 

While I realize that all families love each other, the strong reliance that my mom’s family has on each other is culturally based. In fact, my mom’s entire family lives within a five mile radius of each other. My grandmother has always told me, “At the end of the day, family is all you’ve got.” While Armenians would agree with this, they would likely edit that statement to include friends, too. 

At the beginning of my trip, my host brother asked me what I liked to do for fun. I had a hard time answering this question with actual interests that weren’t related to secular accomplishments. I came to realize that traveling is what I do for fun. I don’t travel for the sake of traveling, but I travel because not only does it help me discover more about myself, but it helps me to break down cultural barriers that I never would be able to traverse if I had stayed in the U.S. my entire life. 
