---
layout: post
title: Week Two Assignment
---

This entry is about my workplace. If you are not interested in reading more about where I work and the cultural analysis that I've had to conduct as part of my intercutural training per this program's requirements, then do not read the following the entry:

Solaron is a new company. Formally registered under Profpanel LLC, with Solaron being adopted as the company’s trademark roughly a year ago, the company was initially founded in 2012. Solaron is a relatively small company, with under fifty employees. Approximately ten to fifteen employees, sometimes fewer, work within Yerevan’s Solaron office on a daily basis. Solaron’s mission is to improve the quality of people’s lives while simultaneously promoting sustainable development within Armenia and surrounding regions. Solaron is committed to the quality of its photovoltaic solar panels and offers both warranties and financial assistance via loans from its banking partners. Solaron aims to make its solar panels financially accessible to a wide range of clientele. Solaron is likewise committed to supporting its clients throughout the duration of their products’ lifetime through training and instruction. Solaron provides various products and services to clients, such as the manufacturing and sale of photovoltaic solar panels, polycrystalline and monocrystalline PERC panels, and photovoltaic solar systems. Solaron provides services to its customers by way of consultation, design creation, installation, and warranty and post-warranty service of products sold to customers. Since Solaron is a newly founded company, it is constantly looking for ways to grow. Part of my assignment will be to research nearby markets in order to determine what potential Solaron has to conduct business in such markets.

I’ve learned from being abroad that English serves as an international language amongst many countries. Locals from Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan would tell me that if they traveled to the UAE and spoke English with people there, who had also learned English as a second language, they had a much easier time understanding them than they would a native speaker from America or the UK. I’ve seen evidence of this thus far during my internship. My colleagues speak English with their international partners and clients. It is only in the event that the person with whom they are speaking is from Russia, that they will speak with them in Russian instead of English. As a result, I’ve been very impressed with how well my colleagues speak English, despite the fact that most of them have learned it locally and have never traveled outside the country to learn English. I also realize that the English I speak is very colloquially American. Despite the penetration of American media sources throughout the world, I recognize that using terms, phrases, and expressions that are overly colloquial will definitely impair my colleagues’ ability to understand me. In the event that I use such words or phrases, I try to be mindful that I may need to further expound upon what I mean.

During my first week, I formed the impression that Armenian work style was significantly different than it is in America, but now I am beginning to think otherwise. Depending on someone’s current workload, they will either be more or less inclined to spend time engaging in a conversation with a fellow coworker. Having celebrations for birthdays or other life events does happen frequently and definitely sets Armenia apart from the U.S. in that regard. Someone’s birthday will demand a celebration, song, and cake in the kitchenette with everyone in the office in attendance.  But after about fifteen or twenty minutes of celebrating, everyone goes back to work and resumes their normal routine.

Since I am no longer a brand new employee, it seems that my coworkers are less intrigued with me that they were initially, which is useful in the sense that I have longer stretches of time to work on tasks without being distracted by a curious colleague. I also recognize, however, that because I don’t speak Armenian, not everyone in the office feels comfortable speaking with me in English, or even Russian (although I’m not sure all of them know that I speak Russian). I also presume that work had picked up this week for most people since there are a lot of new people in the office who I have just met this week. Some of them had been out traveling for work last week. People have been in the kitchenette talking at times, but less frequently than last week. I think this week is just a busier week at work in general, which has been reflected in how quiet everyone has been as well as by how many meetings have been going on.

Work meetings in the Armenian work culture are also much less informal than in the U.S. My coworkers do not use Outlook calendars to track all of their meetings, nor do they need to reserve a room, or location, for each meeting. Instead, someone just walks up to someone else, or calls them on their cell phone, and says that they need to talk to them. Sometimes, it turns into a meeting of three or four people maximum, but meetings involving the whole office do not seem to exist. I also realize, however, that this could be because Solaron is a small company. During my first internship ever, I worked with about five or six other employees and we hardly ever had meetings. 

In terms of professional skills that I share with my colleagues, this is my fourth internship. Therefore, I am used to working in an office setting, both large and small. The primary skill sets that I share with my coworkers  would be already having professional workplace experience, speaking English and Russian, and having some experience with translation work. The most valuable contribution that I feel that I’ve been able to make so far is helping to perfect Solaron’s English translations of contracts and its company website. I’ve also been conducting a lot of market research. This task initially proved somewhat challenging for me since it has been approximately two years since I’ve conducted extensive market research. At first, I had a hard time getting started, but then I got the hang of it after about half a day. I have really appreciated the flexibility that my office has afforded me to work on tasks that I find interesting and engaging. 

I have expressed to my manager and mentor my thoughts with regards to what tasks I think that I would be able to= work successfully at and I have been assigned work accordingly. When something appears that I think that I can offer additional help with, I communicate it. For instance, I have been trying to take initiative in helping our company to network with local entities. Related to the group discussion that we had as a student group earlier this week, it is safe to say that we have all become more aware of the different networking opportunities that we can take advantage of in order to help facilitate business amongst our host organizations. For example, we learned about the services that AmCham provides with regards to networking. In the U.S., we value networking very much and have many events dedicated to it, even at an undergraduate studies level, such as at career fairs. Therefore, it is my speculation that we, as American students, could potentially possess networking skills, or be more attentive to the importance of networking events than our host organizations. Since we all received an email about a networking event to be hosted by AmCham, I have decided that it would be a good idea for me to attend as an intern to support and represent my host organization.   

This past week that my current mentor will be leaving for vacation in approximately two more weeks. We have made plans to get the portion of my work done that requires collaboration with her before she leaves. She will be gone for the rest of my internship once she is gone, which makes me a little anxious since I am used to going to her for assignments and related questions. However, I feel that I have developed good enough relationships with my other coworkers to the degree where I feel comfortable approaching them for further instruction or direction with any tasks I am assigned. It’s also helpful that my workload was somewhat predetermined at the onset of my internship. Therefore, I am confident that I will be able to stay productive and occupied throughout the rest of my internship despite this expected change of a workplace norm. But because I am used to working under a mentor, I know that my mentor leaving will be a slight adjustment. With that being said, I know that my fellow coworkers will prove to be a valuable resource during my internship, but especially towards the end of my internship.
