---
layout: post
title: Friday
---

It’s been almost a  week since I’ve been here. I was sleeping an average of six hours a night, so I made sure to practice my usual sleeping pattern by sleeping twelve consecutive hours last night in order to catch up. 

I woke up close to 1 P.M. Zara had left a cute note in the bathroom saying that she was at the neighbor’s house and to call her. She left her phone number. I was not hungry right away. I made my bed, separated my laundry between lights and darks. I sat down to type a little on my computer when Zara returned. She asked why I didn’t call her. I told her I just woke up. She keeps trying to tell me that eating is important. Did I not like to eat? No, not really. I explained how I was afraid that I was going to get fat. When I went to Kyrgyzstan, I at first got fat. Then towards the end of the trip, everyone started telling me I lost weight. That was also because my host family started feeding me less. I also am already at the height of my fatness due to stupid medications. So I really needed to watch it. 

I had gotten in touch with my former Russian teacher’s friend, who lives in Yerevan. Tatyana was my first Russian teacher ever. I was her student beginning in 2014. She is actually the one who recommended I do this program. If it wasn’t for her, I wouldn’t be here.
Her friend’s name is Arsen. He is a teacher of philosophy at the Polytech Institute here.

I messaged Arsen yesterday on Facebook and said that I would be free after 1 PM today, because I was sleeping of course. He said he would call me.

I dread talking on the phone in Russian, so I began in English, but he said that he knew that I knew Russian and requested that I speak in Russian, so I did. It’s only been a week, but speaking fluently about things that five year old could speak about is beginning to come naturally. I supposed this is a small victory.

I agreed to meet Arsen near the SAS Supermarket that was near my home. He has a car so he would drive to meet me. I told Zara of my plans. She said that if I had any trouble to call her. She asked me if I was going to wear shorts out of the house. I asked if that was okay to wear here. All of my jeans were currently in the washing machine. It was either that or a skirt. I had a tank top on and explained that I was going to put something on over top of it. In that event, it was fine. I try my best to dress as gross as possible when abroad because it’s a safety precaution. It was funny though because my host mom said I still needed to put makeup on, which I thought was kind of funny. I said I didn’t want to put much on because I wanted to run later.

I found Arsen outside of SAS. He was balding and had a beard and reminded me a bit of my old team lead, J.R. minus the sense of humor. Arsen said that we could go to a café. He asked me where I would like to go, but because I am so easy-going/don’t care much about food, I of course had no opinion. 

I gave Arsen a bag filled with presents for kids, a NASA calendar, and a woman’s bracelet. It turned out his kids were 14 and 15. I was hoping they were a little younger, but in any event, I hope the presents were adequate.

Arsen was dismayed he didn’t have anything for me. I told him not to worry. I accidentally forgot my wallet, which made me want to punch myself in the face, but Arsen paid for my coffee and cake, which I couldn’t finish because sweets don’t even taste good anymore because I so badly don’t want this to be a repeat of Kyrgyzstan. I keep trying to set the expectation lower for how much I eat.

We ate at a café located on small lake. It was named Aragast. We talked about traveling, how he knew Tatyana, family. Afterwards we ended up going to Etchmiadzin, which is a holy site. Foruntately, it was free since I forgot my wallet. It was a 30 min. drive outside the city center. This consisted of viewing monasteries. I noticed how people walk out of the church facing backwards. This is some sort of Armenian tradition since you don’t want to preserve your back and not face it towards the altar. It was something like that. Sorry. That one was lost in Russian translation.

On the way back Arsen asked me what I noticed about Armenians that was different. I compare it to Kyrgyzstan a lot. I noticed that people like to stare at women more often than what I was used to it. I don’t like it because it makes me feel unsafe, even though Yerevan is allegedly safer than Bishkek. I commented on how when I walk with Anahit, my coworker, men always stare at her. He said that people stare because they are empty inside. That was a good point I suppose. The women at work all wore skirts and dressed regularly, so I supposed Anahit dressed that way as dress code, not because she wanted the attention. She didn’t strike me as that kind of person.

Arsen said that it was good that I was doing so much cross culture analysis. I didn’t have to try hard. I just did it naturally. Something else I’m getting really good at is having a sense of direction, since I move around so much. Putting together cognitive maps is probably one of favorite things to do. That’s another reason I like running so much.

I returned home and talked to Tigran, my other host brother, for the first time in…while. He’s not around as much as Mher. Then again, I’m not home by 6 very often during the week. I usually get home at 7. 

I had a piece of corn when I got home. I called my Michelle in the States for all of one minute before Tigran came in and ate a piece of corn with me. He told me to tell him if he was bothering me. He asked if one piece of corn was enough. Yes. Needless to say, Zara came in with dinner about 15 min. later and I’m just thinking wow. This is so much food. I am saving the vegetables for when Mher gets home so I can be productive and multitask while talking.

It seems like everything in Armenia is about food. My friends and family here all love to eat. And the women definitely are not as thin here as they are in Kyrgyzstan. Zara told me that Mher tells her she will turn into a sumo wrestler someday. Armenians remind me of Italians. Zara is like my mom and will always kiss me hello and good bye. She always wants to know where I am and what I am doing and when I will be home.

Tigran starts talking to me about marriage ages. I said that people get married around 30 in the U.S. I had this conversation with Zara during breakfast this morning because Mher’s friend who was over last night is engaged and he is 27 and he just met his fiancé’s parents this past week. 

Tigran is a lawyer so he showed me an excerpt from a film, in Russian, based on a true story, that I had a hard time understanding. Tigran doesn’t understand how I never watch anything. He told me I’m too busy trying to become an astronaut. Who knows?

Based on what we had just watched, Tigran proceeds to talk about how policemen can kill people in the U.S. but here, in Armenia, they can’t. If they do, they will go to jail. “You have the death penalty in the U.S. Why is it only in different states?” I have no idea. I am not a lawyer.

As I am writing this, Zara comes in to tell me not to be shy and to come into the kitchen and talk if I want to.  I was in there for a little earlier. Zara had four friends over earlier when I was leaving to meet my new friend. One remained. She had asked if I was not interested in the cooking. I was, but I needed time alone. Zara asked how old my friend one. Technically, she asked if he was young. I said no. He was the same age as my dad, 52. “Oh, that’s young!” Zara is also 52.

I have approximately 30 min. until Mher comes home so I am going to capitalize on that and try to finish writing because I am going somewhere with him tonight – maybe to the movies. Maybe Hayk will come, too. I still want to see the Incredibles 2.

Thirty minutes passed. Mher isn’t home yet. Tigran made sure I was okay, because I was sitting alone and typing. We were talking about how much we weigh, but I didn’t know in kilograms. I’ve expressed that I don’t love history. I have a very hard time retaining it. He said that I should love history. It is better than outer space. He excused himself to go for a walk. He can’t run because it would be dangerous based on how many kilograms he weighs. 

Then Mher came home. We talked about plans for the weekend. I invited him to go hiking with my on Sunday. I would be busy all day tomorrow. He ended up going to the banya with his friend, Artyen (the journalist guy mentioned above). Obviously I would not be invited to that. So I had a glorious opportunity to stay home and catch up on writing this blog, calling people, watching Russian T.V. My host mom came in and started talking the collapse of the Soviet Union and how her boys were little when this happened and then the war against Azerbaijan happened. And it was always cold and there was no food, particularly bread. Yeah. I tend not to eat bread and my host mom expressed dismay at this. All of the former CCCP countries didn’t fare so well after the collapse, obviously, but it’s interesting to her it from people who experienced it. 

Upon watching Russian T.V., I found the movie Das Leben der Anderen, which I had watched in German, dubbed in English, but here it was in Russian. Excellent. I probably proceeded to go to bed late anyway. What else is new?
