---
layout: post
title: Orientation and the Electronic Fiasco
---
I wasn’t late – for once in my life. I made it to Gwenma’s (my grandmother’s) house in time to leave my car there before she dropped me off at the hotel in D.C., where I would be having my orientation with American Councils. I even had a whole half hour to spare. That must be a record or something.

	Orientation last year for Kyrgyzstan consisted of me, another girl, and a boy. The girl went to Kazakhstan. The boy went to Georgia. I would be the only student in Kyrgyzstan that summer. This summer is a different story.
	
	There were 17 students at my orientation this year. Out of 17 students, I will be going to Yerevan, Armenia along with 6 of them. 
	
	But how do I feel about this? Not very happy. It’s not that I’m antisocial or anything (except for the occasional I need to get this done by this deadline, and, therefore, you should leave me alone). The real reason I avoid this scenario is because the whole point of going on a cultural, language immersion program is to immerse yourself in that culture, not your own. Therefore, spending time with other Americans completely ruins the purpose of this travel expedition. But I have already volunteered to spearhead the organization of the intern group trip to Tbilisi, Georgia. There are two interns on our program there, too.  I suppose I will have to make an exception for this weekend. In all seriousness, we will see how social I am with the other interns. I will be interning 30 hours a week and taking language instruction 3 hours a week and going to my religious meetings for a total of 4 hours a week. This excludes transportation durations. I will more likely only be social on weekends. 
	
	Orientation with more students was more fun in the sense that most of these students are hard core Russian language students, and, therefore, they offer valuable insight into immersion programs and scholarship funds. I didn’t learn very much new information from orientation that I didn’t already know, except that we have to stay in a registered hotel or hostel when we travel since they are legally registered and pay taxes. That means no Air B & B’s. I also learned that I will have a  bunch of assignments on this trip in addition to my already existing, self-mandated blogging. I have decided that I will make both a personal blog and a professional blog since I will have a capstone project at the end of this trip.
	
	This means I will need a computer. Last year, I brought my brick of an HP laptop. I plan to take a marshrutka across countries with all my luggage, so yeah, no thanks. I bought a Chromebook instead. It must have been a lemon. It did work for a day and a half, but after that, I was not able to charge it or turn it on. It became completely unresponsive. Ironically, I had just checked my government email remotely, right before the computer stopped working. Before I left, I was unable to validate whether this was a sheer coincidence or not.
	
	In any event, I had three hours until game time and was without a functioning laptop. This apparently called for a $15 cab ride two miles away from the hotel in D.C. for the purpose of an emergency trip to Best Buy. My two accomplices – two other students in my program accompanied me, because, well, quite frankly, what else were they going to do? Sit around the hotel? Boring! At least you can kind of sight see in a cab.
	
	Alas, Best Buy.  A seemingly simple task ended up taking approximately 1.25 hours. Look, Best Buy, I get that you’re losing a lot of business to Amazon (i.e. my Chromebook), and someday your fate will probably be that of Blockbuster, but your hard selling was not cutting it. I walk in there and am assigned a Geek Squad appointment without a quote. A quick Google search yielded it was a hefty price to pay, so I canceled it. The manager, who scheduled it for me, also said they would price match whatever I found on Amazon. Look. I just bought a laptop from them and now I’m looking to buy one from you. That’s irrelevant. I went to price compare at Target and idiotically told the manager that’s what I was doing, to which he defensively scoffed at their laptop selection. Let me be a consumer. Sheesh. But the $150 Dell I saw at Best Buy was still in the lead. 
	
	We return to Best Buy and say I want this laptop. The sales representative rants about how this laptop has low storage space, low RAM, and people return it after 6 months. Key word: 6 months, NOT 6 weeks. This guy also proceeds to bash Target saying that they will sell you anything without offering advice on the specs. Instead, this guy proceeds to upsell a $450 laptop.
	
	“Look, I am going to a third world country. I have a Mac at home that I didn’t want to bring with me. I need a burner laptop to get me through 6 weeks. All I need to do is write essays and submit them. I am not in search of a new computer. I already have one. I just need something to get me through my time abroad. I am literally leaving in several hours. I just need something.”
	
	He becomes visibly irritated, says he needs to help another customer. We ask if they have Chromebooks. If so, where are they? After a re-comparison with Target and a conversation with my life advisor, Craig Peters, I go for the Dell.  I go back and say I want this, I’ve decided. The previous salesperson must not have viewed this sale as not “worthy” of commission. I have no idea if that’s true. I just made that up. But he had another lady check me out. No, I don’t want Antivirus. No, I don’t want insurance. And no, I definitely do not want to open up another credit card. I left Best Buy with exactly what I needed, but my attitude had taken took a hit. All Best Buy’s, I hope aren’t that pushy. The fact that they weren’t listening to my consumer needs, and all they cared about was upselling, was most infuriating.
	
	One hour until go time. We Ubered back this time. MUCH cheaper, hence why Uber was invented. How genius. I needed to mail my Chromebook back home to my dad for him to fix/use. Turns out the Post Office that was allegedly 5 min. away by foot did not exist. Cool. I left it at the hotel. Gwenma got it and had to mail it. Poor Gwenma. I give her way too much busy work, but I guess grandmothers don’t mind helping their grandbabies. Maybe I’ll understand this one day. Until then, I will wonder how Gwenma puts up with my shenanigans. 
	
	We took a shuttle to the airport. I detached myself from the rest of the interns, who were all going to eat. Generally, international flights fatten you up like a pig going in for the slaughter, so I was like, I’ll pass and call my family and say my goodbyes instead. 
	
	Fortunately, my flights were mostly uneventful, aside from some slight, brief sickness that was overcome with a trip to the bathroom. I stood up, don’t remember walking to the bathroom, and I guess I must have passed out, because I lost consciousness and returned to it with the help of some gasps from other passengers. I just knew I needed to stay on the ground for a moment. “Are you okay?” “Yes.” I went into the bathroom, began to sweat profusely. Then, I finished all my business and went back to my seat, drank some water, watched an entire movie and was fine. The movie was called Single By Contract and is officially my new favorite Russian film. 
	
	I felt fine since that mishap. I will write it off as  a freak act of nature and carry on. 
But best of all, my laptop works and that’s all that matters. 
