---
layout: post
title: Cultural Pie Week 3 Assignment
---
You can find my completed assignment for this week below:

The biggest ingredient in my pie is my religion. This is because I feel that my religious values influence all aspects of my life. Many of my personal values are adapted from my religious beliefs. These include aversion towards materialism, modesty, humility, antiviolence and lack of involvement from military service, different moral standards than the average American, a desire to feel united with my fellow believers in other lands, political neutrality, and a lack of nationalistic pride. 

Following my religion results in me behaving in ways that may not always conform to social norms. These include not saying “bless you” when someone sneezes, not celebrating holidays or birthdays, not saluting the flag during the pledge of allegiance or national anthem. Being a Jehovah’s Witness puts me in the minority no matter what country I am in. However, it also means that Jehovah’s Witnesses can be found no matter where you are in the world, even in places where our work is kept underground. 

While many of my values are influenced by my religion, I have some values that are not. For example, I am very passionate about higher education, secular achievement, and living a health conscious lifestyle. Some of these values are not supported by my religion. In fact, some of them are even frowned upon. Growing up, this was one of the biggest struggles I faced. I always had the goal of going to college. I always opted to do after school sports. For members of my religion who are stricter in their adherence to religious norms and suggestions, such aspirations and involvement were seen as controversial. As a youth, many people in my religion tried to influence me to change my mind about such activities. My parents, on the other hand, had taught me that having these values were important. Although having outside influences pressing on these values proved to be challenging during my adolescence, it forced me to become more resolute in what I believed and valued on a personal level instead of as a result of strict religious adherence.  

This has proved to be both a blessing a curse, for balancing my religion with my desire to pursue secular achievements has at times felt juxtaposed. Since both of these things are extremely important to me, I have tried my best to pursue both of them to the best of my ability where and when possible. While following my religion is arguably the most important value I have, it is not the only value I subscribe to. As a result, I divide my time between not only my worship, but also working, whether as a student or an employee, and trying my best to live a healthy life by making sure to exercise regularly and eat as healthy as possible. My education is not limited to university studies. I have also invested large amounts of time and resources towards my pursuance of mastering the Russian language. I similarly used to study Spanish and still use it from time to time. But because I find Russian more challenging, I enjoy speaking and using Russian much more than Spanish. At this point in my life, I’ve realized that spending time pursuing things other than religious service does not make me less of a spiritual person. It just means that I like to spend my time differently than most people, divvying up my time between activities that are both challenging and engaging for me, but most of all, that make me happy.

While being achievement hungry may seem to negatively influence the quantity of time I spend in my religious devotion, that is not the only thing is influences. I feel that being so driven towards achievement has at times thwarted my interpersonal relationships. As an American, we are taught to believe that we must achieve at all costs. We are taught to believe that there is hardly anything that we shouldn’t sacrifice for the sake of achievement. People who balance many different activities are seen as well-rounded and successful. Parents are often willing to work long hours to provide materially for their children rather than emotionally. These values stand in direct contrast to Armenian values. 

While I try very hard to maintain my interpersonal relationships, I have a very large extended network of friends resultant of my travels. I realize that it is simply impossible to keep in touch with everyone. Nonetheless, I try my best. As my travel portfolio continues to grow, I have become increasingly more aware of the different cultural values that different nations of people hold. I am extremely appreciative of the opportunity that I’ve had to do this on an international level. I’ve noticed that within the U.S., I’ve always been infatuated with talking to people who came to the U.S. from other lands. This has been the case ever since I was young. I had been attempting to grow in my cultural awareness even before I was old enough to travel. 

In Armenia, it’s important not only to spend time with family, but with close, lifelong friends as  well. This value is one that I have seldom been exposed to, even in other foreign countries. My mom’s side of the family is Italian and has taught me that family should be above all else, even friends. 

People in Armenia also care a lot about knowing everyone’s business. My mom’s family feels this way as well. Despite the fact that I grew up in a cultural context that is somewhat similar to Armenian culture, the close proximity of interpersonal relationships and the desire to know everyone’s personal business seemingly instantaneously was challenging for me adjust to, relate to, and understand upon initial arrival to Armenia. 

Traveling throughout the world has caused me to realize that despite cultural differences, we are all still human underneath it all. People of all lands enjoy having close, meaningful interpersonal relationships both with family members and with friends. All humans derive enjoyment from working hard to accomplish something, meanwhile they also enjoy resting, relaxing, eating and drinking when circumstances call for it. Universally, people want to help each other and generally believe that if they do good to others, people will do good to them in return. As a result, religiously based values influence all people’s lives, whether people realize it or not.
