---
layout: post
title: Week One Assignment
---
I will start posting the weekly assignments that I have to do for my program here as well. Here is the first one:

The company I intern at is located towards the outskirts of Yerevan, in the southwest region of the city. Up until this point, I had mostly stayed close to my house and the city center. Fortunately, I was not alone in my journey. I was accompanied by my mentor, Anahit, to Solaron’s office. There wasn’t much of a sidewalk on our walk there from the metro station. Fortunately, that street doesn’t get too busy.

Solaron’s solar panel manufacturing company and its corporate office are located in separate buildings next to each other. There is also a third building next to them, which is abandoned and is supposed to be torn down at some point. 

The first thing we did was go to the office. It is on the third floor of a building that has another business on the second floor and a couple of stores on the lowest level – a shoe store, a clothing store, a chocolate store. People also tended to smoke indoors on this lower level. It didn’t make much sense to me why all of these shops are located next to each other. It reminded me of the malls in Bishkek, and some of the ones here in Yerevan. In the U.S., malls are for shopping – not for arcades, petting zoos, children’s indoors playgrounds, etc. I suppose this design is efficient. My coworker said this was because, “Armenians are lazy people.” I’m sure it was a joke, but laziness is one way of looking at it. Laziness or efficiency – take your pick.

I could tell that Solaron’s office was very new. Everything was in pristine condition with a very bright, open work style concept, seen in a lot of new offices. The doors were all glass. The dividers in the cubicles were so low that they were nearly nonexistent. All of the furniture was modern and new. They were still in the process of buying chairs for their conference room. This made me realize that Armenians probably don’t have nearly as many business meetings as we do in the U.S. 

Anahit and the accountant, Teresa, have a separate room than the managers and the engineers. Most of the engineers sit in a room with about nine desks, a few of which are unoccupied. The first day I came in was this past Monday. Hardly anyone was in the office that day. Since the company is small, when a few people are missing, it seems very empty. The next day I discovered how many people actually worked in the room I sat in. One or two other desks aside from the one where I was sitting were unoccupied. I didn’t get to utilize my cubicle assignment until my second day of work. I also had to bring my own computer from home, which I had never needed to do in a workplace environment. 

On my first day, one of the first things I did was use the bathroom. I noticed a soda bottle filled with water. I didn’t realize why it was there. Later I realized that sometimes the water pressure gets so low that the water stops flowing from the faucet. In that event, this bottle of water was an alternative to watching your hands using the faucet.

I set my backpack down in the room where Anahit works and we headed over to the factory. We put on plastic booties to cover our feet and walked around. It felt like all of the factory workers momentarily stopped what they were doing and stared at me when I walked in, I guess because I was a new, unfamiliar person. Anahit said hi to some of the workers, but I didn’t really get the opportunity to meet any of them personally. We walked around as Anahit explained the process behind creating the solar panels. She showed me what happens to defective parts that are produced. I found this interesting. There were also a lot of tests that the panels had to undergo to guarantee their quality. There was a repository of solar panels already produced that were segmented to a portion of the factory that was quite large relative to whole factory. Anahit said that I could come back to the factory and walk around any time I wanted.

We went back to the office. Anahit introduced me to all of my coworkers that were working that day, including Emma, who would be my manager. I sat with Anahit at her desk for a bit. Afterwards, Emma and Anahit sat down with me to discuss what I would be doing. 

Emma told me that she was very happy to have me. She had to keep excusing herself because she had some important phone calls coming in. I later realized that talking on cell phones at work was very popular – both professionally and personally it seemed, even if it wasn’t your break time. People also would hand their cell phones to other people in the office to speak to whoever was on the other line.

I am the only native English speaker working at Solaron. Emma hadn’t used English and awhile and expressed remorse that her English had gotten worse. I told her not to worry. I was nowhere near fluent in Russian. I am actually very impressed with how well many of my coworkers speak English, despite never having visited an English speaking country.

We proceeded to talk about scheduling. Emma said that she only needed me to work three days a week, but if there was something special going on that she needed me here for, she would let me know ahead of time. I told her that I would also have Russian classes while here and I would have to see when those would be. After this discussion, Anahit and I sat together and drafted my schedule –  at  least for this week. On Tuesday and Wednesday, I was only supposed to stay until 1, but I stayed until 6 anyway, like everyone else does, since I enjoy talking to my coworkers.

During my meeting with Emma and Anahit, we talked about the types of tasks that I would like to work on. Marketing was one of them. This included conducting market research for surrounding countries in order to discover any market potential that may exist there. This task could also be extended to how Solaron could be better advertised, which could include social media, with which fortunately, I have some vague experience. I offered to proofread some documents, or even look over the website, to make sure everything written in English was free of mistakes. I did end up doing this with one contract by the end of the week. Anahit had translated it. I went over the mistakes I found later on with her.

I would also be responsible for presenting Solaron to other American Councils students. I explained that I need to put together a presentation for the U.S. embassy. This could include the market research portion. I decided I would also add a cross cultural work style section. It’s only been several days, but I feel like I’ve already learned a lot about Armenian work culture, mostly with regards to how it is different from corporate America.

And since it’s been awhile, since high school really, that I’ve learned anything about solar panels, part of my assignment this week was to learn more about not only Solaron, but how solar panels work in general. 

On my second day, I came in and created my work plan. I was not surprised to see that many of my coworkers came in wearing the same thing they had on yesterday, which of course would not be normal for Americans, but is socially acceptable here. I also learned more about how what I had read about Soviet work culture has still been somewhat perpetuated in Armenia in this day and age. 

In the Soviet Union, workers didn’t view work as just work. They viewed it was their second home – a place where they felt emotionally close to their coworkers and viewed them as confidents, even family maybe. Taking long amounts of time out of their work day to socialize with coworkers was not viewed as uncommon. That has somewhat been the case here so far.

When I first arrived to work on my first full day, everyone was in the kitchenette together having morning coffee. This lasted about fifteen minutes. Then we all got started working. After about another fifteen minutes, one of our coworkers, Roman, comes in with a bottle of champagne and a box of chocolates. My manager, Emma, comes over to me and explains that when a positive life event, such as an engagement, a wedding, or a birth, happens, everyone celebrates with their friends with a sweet treat. We proceeded back to the kitchenette. Everyone in the office came to celebrate. We all shared a bottle of champagne and a box of chocolates. Drinking alcohol at work, even if it was a miniscule amount, is certainly something that would never happen in the U.S. 

As the day proceeded, I had to go eat lunch at some point. The nearest food court is a ten minute walk, but I went with Anahit to run some errands. She had to help her dad buy some goods at the market. I was glad to find where the market was. That was fairly useful. Then we went to the food court. Anahit was also picking up lunch for coworkers. That seems to be fairly common as the next day she called her sister to ask if she wanted anything for lunch. In total, this outing took about an hour. I had picked up food, but hadn’t eaten it yet. I went back and ate my food in the kitchenette and became better acquainted with my coworker Teresa. She was getting married in a couple of months. She told me all about Armenian wedding traditions, such as breaking plates, eating honey, and putting lavash on your shoulder. Therefore, I had about a two hour lunch. This style continued the next day, too. 


Since this is my first week, I am still attempting to learn what the socially acceptable balance between work and play is both at large in Armenia and locally at the host organization where I am interning.

My coworker, Naira, told me that if I needed to get something done, it was not rude to just say, “Sorry. I need to work.” I told her that would be a little rude in the U.S. Naira understood that everyone wanted to talk to me because I was smart, interesting, and social. I was surprised to find that all of my coworkers liked me so much and wanted to become better acquainted with me. They did, however, have one other intern previously. It seemed like they all liked him, too. Point in case, I wasn’t expecting all of coworkers to be as friendly as they are. They also try to teach me Armenian words, in addition to giving me the opportunity to practice my Russian. They feel like my friends already.

Something that I learned from my internship in the U.S. earlier this year was that adapting to social and cultural norms of the work office can be as important, if not more important at times, than the work you produce. While this does not make sense to me, it is something that I have accepted. Therefore, I am trying to apply what I learned earlier during that professional experience to how I act at my internship in Armenia. Socializing with coworkers is important so that they like you. That doesn’t mean that producing good work isn’t important. Essentially, I’ve learned is that they are both important in different ways. 

Since this is my fifth internship ever, I’ve learned that coworkers like to talk to their new coworker a lot, particularly at first, to get to know them better. I am accepting that talking a lot will definitely happen a lot at first, but it will most likely subside as time progresses. If not, I can say what Naira told me to say, and, hopefully, people will be nice and understand. Maybe I will find out the result in the not-so-distant future. I am confident that adapting to my company culture, will be important for the success of my internship. I also recognize that my good relationships with everyone in my organization will allow me to gain the skills that I want, such as  gaining Russian skills, or working with people in different job roles that might allow me to check out what they are working on. I thoroughly enjoy working in this sort of environment with the coworkers I have.  I am eager to develop both professional skills and personal skills. I believe that my coworkers will prove to be valuable assets throughout the duration of my internship.

