---
layout: post
title: Why I Believe People in Other Countries are Luckier than People in the U.S.
---
I’ve been late to my appointments for the past two days. I have no idea why. Armenians are not late people. I think my host family keeps overestimating how much time it takes to get to the center. It is more than thirty minutes, which they don’t seem to believe. 

This morning Mher was awake while I was eating breakfast. He ate breakfast with me. I asked him why he was awake so early today. It’s not like they ran out of milk. He said that he will go into work earlier so he can leave work earlier. “Why? Because you just feel like it.” Yeah. That was basically why.

This morning at breakfast we talked about family. I woke up and discovered that my family was already on their way to France. They took a family picture at the airport. I told Mher who everyone was. When he saw my mixed ethnicity cousins, he got confused and asked whether they were my relatives or if they were in the picture just because. This would have been a good time to explain that interracial marriages are becoming increasingly more popular in the U.S., but it was too early in the morning and I was having a hard enough time speaking Russian as it was. This was of course a foreign concept to an Armenian living in a country where 98% of people are ethnically Armenian.

I had been talking to Mher about studying Russian for an academic year in Bishkek since I just found out about this program the other day and it seemed more reasonably priced that the one that I was looking at in Kazakhstan. He said that he thought that he thought I would change my mind because I would miss my family too much. For some reason this lent itself to a discussion about all of the family issues that I have and the reasons why I am not close with either of my parents. I explained that I was a little bit closer with my extended family, however. My relationship with my mom has definitely improved a lot in the time that I haven’t been living with her. I didn’t spend much time with my dad anymore. I explained that people in the U.S. tend to value work and money above family. Mher said it was the opposite here. I was well aware. He asked what did I value more? I admitted that I probably valued having a career more than I valued my family. I don’t know why I feel this way. It’s probably cultural. It doesn’t mean that I don’t love my family. It just means that I am more willing to make sacrifices for the advancement of personal accomplishments than I am to make sacrifices for my family. I think that’s just the way we are taught in the U.S. You, as an individual, achieving the greatest things you can is the most important thing you can do with your life. I don’t like this value. In fact, I remember how much I want to eradicate it every time I experience a different culture abroad. I recognize that so far I have not been successful. 

We had our program’s weekly meeting today at 10:30 A.M. to which I was nearly ten minutes late. I was the last to arrive. I expressed concern over my schedule because last Friday I wasn’t sure if I was supposed to come into work or not. I was trying to go with the flow and figure out the appropriate amount to engage with coworkers because I’ve worked in environments where people get very upset for you either being too chatty or not being chatty enough. In another cultural context, this is even more difficult to understand. The only advantage I have is that I am a foreign and can, therefore, plead the fifth. (I did not mention that at the meeting). I then talked about my host family and how I was happy that Zara would come in and force Mher and I to stop talking and tell me to take a shower and go to bed ASAP. This has been resulting in me going to bed approximately one hour earlier. Thank you, Zara.

I went out to eat with a few of the other program students. Today I would be working remotely so I didn’t have to worry about rushing to work. We ate lamajun and shaurmas at a local eatery. I brought up the conversation that I was having this morning. We all talked about our families and the relationships we have with them. This came up because we were assessing how many people who live here really wanted to come to the U.S. I explained that I thought there were a substantial amount of people here who had family and friends here and had relationships that they valued and that they wouldn’t want to leave behind. This lent itself to why people in other countries are more fortunate. They may not have the same financial resources that we have in America, but they are so rich in their interpersonal relationships. I always try to explain this to people who imagine that living in the U.S. is better. Maybe in some ways it is, but it presents its own unique challenges as well.

I then went to a coffee shop to get some alone time to work without the distraction of people I knew. Another student recommended I go here. I ordered a cappuccino and it was 1500 drams and I decided that I would not be coming back, because I am cheap and that is an expensive by Armenian standards. There was also a guy smoking, sitting at a table rightby the register. I started thinking about how I don't remember there being this much smoking in Kyrgyzstan and I started thinking about how I can't wait to get back to the U.S. so I can stop having sit in smoking areas inside of restaurants and cafes. There is no escape here. I will probably have the impact of at least two cigarettes minimum from second hand smoke by the time I return home. This better not impact my running.

Because of the a man who was smoking when I came in, I sat furthest away from him and everyone else. But then this other guy came in and started smoking at the table next to mine. I have no idea what kind if cigarette was that but it made my nostril hairs feel like they were dying at the hands of that stench. Eventually, I had had enough and left the café two hours ahead of schedule. I expected that I would go home and work. That was a good joke. That’s like leaving my university and expecting me to do actual homework when I go home. Not happening.

Maria called me and asked me to eat lunch with her at the Yerevan Mall, but I explained that I was not over that way today. I found this funny because we just ate together the night before. 

I talked on the phone and half worked on an assignment. Before I knew it, it was time to eat and then go to the meeting. AGAIN. This time in English. The meeting was boring because I understood everything. I like Russian better because I’m trying so hard to make sense of what is happening that my brain feels much more engaged. Also, the majority of the congregation was comprised of native speakers, unlike in Kyrgyzstan where no one was a native speaker. This was also boring because I couldn’t sit there and analyze people’s grammars mistakes and try to back track and thing about what that would have been in Russian. A portion of the meeting was streamed from a British congregation. That was kind of random. 

Getting to the meeting, talking to people after the meeting, and going home from the meeting were the highlights of this endeavor. I left an hour beforehand. This was too much time.

Things that I did this afternoon before I went to the meeting that made me feel productive included adding more money to my phone and throwing away my own garbage in the dumpster.

On to the meeting. My favorite thing about taking the marshrutka is learning marshrutka etiquette. Interestingly enough Armenia marshrutka etiquette is different from Kyrgyzstan. You cannot get off at a random place, even if the vehicle is fully stopped. You have to get off at a stop. This might be because these marshrutka doors slide open and are harder to open and close. Standing in these marshrutkas is a challenge, which at least keeps the occupancy down. If you try to say things in Russian on the marshrutka, people may or may not understand you/be willing to help you. Therefore, I have a rough idea of how to say “stop at the bus stop” in Armenian. I learned that people don’t always feel comfortable speaking Russian because of their accent. This doesn’t make too much sense since I have an accent when I speak Russian, too, but I forget that for some strange reason, people think I am Russian sometimes. Either way a woman on the bus somewhat helped me get off at the proper bus stop. Either that or my saying stop at the bus stop in Armenian actually worked.

I got to the meeting 20 min. early. I met a couple where the wife was from Ecuador and the husband from Alabama. He had such a long beard. I was like, how does that fly here? I haven’t seen many men with beards. Speaking of which, Hayk came over tonight and had shaved his beard and I was like who is this guy? Anyway, this family used to be in Armenian. They recently moved back to English. They have two young children – Cyprus is their daughter; Titus is their son. 

The Canadian who I met several weeks ago who I think was named Veronica told me that Maria told her that she met me. In fact, I had been spending a lot of time with Maria and her family.

I’ve been having this issue at the meeting where people don’t approach me very much after the meeting and they don’t talk to me long enough for me to have time to give them a present. Instead, I start approaching people myself. Kids are the easiest to approach. I gave away some NASA stuff to two young boys, maybe around 8 or 10. They both spoke English very well and were surprised to find out that I spoke Russian. 

I talked to Lilit a bit at this time. We spoke in Russian some. She wants to have me over as a guest. I said that I was busy the rest of this week. Maybe next week. (It is very sad. Her parents and sister are in D.C. and she is here by herself. She is trying to get to the U.S.)

After that, I met some people from the Armenian congregation since it meets next door. I gave more presents to kids. I saw this little boy sitting over in the corner with a broken arm in a sling, looking very sad. He had a fidget spinner in hand. I ended up giving him a keychain and a NASA sticker, both of which I think he really liked. His entire family surrounded him. His grandparents lived in a town about 2.5 hours away. They were just down here visiting their children and grandchildren. They invited me to be their guest. I wasn’t sure when I would actually maybe have time for this, but I got their contact info regardless. Then I met their daughter/granddaughter (not sure), who was 22. She wanted to practice some English. Her name was Maria. I gave her a bunch of presents. She was appreciative, but said that I didn’t have to give so many. When I told her that I was from the U.S., she said that “the U.S. – it is like I dream.” I said that the U.S. has its own problems too, however.

This entire family helped me to get on a proper marshrutka to get home, which was #13, which is incorrect according to the Yerevan Routes app I’ve been using it. Maria asked the driver if it went to my street. It did. A woman on the bus made sure that I got off at the right street. However, there were several stops. When I waited to get off at the second one at my street and not the first, she got worried. A guy got on the bus and tried to help. In English, he asked me where I was from. I was not about to announce that I am an American in front on 15 people, so I vaguely said, “not here.” He needed to know what language. English, German, Russian. Let’s go with English. Kievyan Street, where I live ended at the bridge. There was a stop midway down the street. Yes. That was the one I wanted. It was the next stop.

I got off and was super close to my house. Lovely. I went home and ate a little. It was 10 PM. I went in my room and put stuff away and when I was walking out I was humming and then Mher stopped and stared at me like I had 100 heads. And I was like, what? He asked why I was singing. I tried to explain that I felt comfortable, but this didn't seem to make sense in Russian. I talked to Mher about what I did today before three of Mher’s BFF’s came over – Artur, Hayk, and Nairi (Hasmik’s husband). I honestly feel like that are my BFF’s, too. I see them so much. They watched football (soccer) and talked in Armenian and I was like eh. I’d like to go now. My special friend helped me fix this blog. I wrote and went to bed around 1 AM, as usual. 

I went to bed very satisfied knowing that I used transportation independently, gave away presents, and made new friends. Those are my three favorite things to do in a day in a foreign country.
