---
layout: post
title: Dilijan
---

It’s always the days where I’m rushing to get somewhere because I think that I need to be there by a certain time that I actually didn’t need to be there by a certain time and I probably could have showed up a half hour later and nobody would have cared.

I was supposed to show up by 10 A.M. this morning to work, as usual. “But don’t be late,” Anahit had told me yesterday. We were going to Dilijan today on a business trip.

I woke up twenty minutes late, which inevitably means that I was running late. Because I was running late, I actually ran to the metro. I’ve only ran twice since I’ve been here, which would be a leading cause for me being desirous of returning to the U.S. Lack of exercise coupled with seemingly inescapable, involuntary inhalation of second-hand smoke makes me feel like I, too, will prematurely die of lung cancer.Running to the metro and actually having to stop and walk flashed a giant warning sign in my brain about how out of shape I really am because there is no reason I should ever have to stop running if I am running late for something.

I rushed down the elevator stairs, just barely missing the metro and had to wait another five minutes.I blamed the lady in front of me who slowed down her stride last minute, but, of course, I am the only crazy American in site who would actually run to get on the metro. Once seated on the metro, I pondered whether this would be a day I didn’t really need to be on time. In any event, I ran to the office, striding into work precisely at 10 AM, just like a Mikaela would.

I didn’t bring my laptop. Why would I need it? But, of course, we didn’t leave until nearly 11:30 AM, so I went into the kitchen, where I essentially spent the entire morning up until I left talking to Teresa. Armenian does not specify gender differences when using pronouns. Teresa does this a lot when she talks. Russian uses way more gender rules. I asked her if she mixed these up in Russian. She said no. She always good at Russian. She talked for awhile in Russian. Her grammar was perfect. I wonder why this mistake was so common.When Armenians are talking, they can’t seem to differentiate between him and her and he and she. 

I also talked to all of my coworkers about the cheapest way to get to Georgia. Anahit of course had the answer. I single-handedly booked our room and transportation for the cheapest price possible. 

Once we left, we squeezed in a car. We went with Hamlet, who drove. He was the guy who took all the measurements. His wife, Naira, also came. Michael (Mee-kay-eel), Anahit, and I sat in the back. We picked up Kristina in Abovyan. I’m so glad Anahit and Kristina are tiny. This was a sedan, not a van. 

In Armenian, when you are talking about someone, you add an a. So when I hear Michael + a, I automatically think people are saying my name when they are really just talking about Michael, not Mikaela.

Since I don’t speak Armenian, I could never quite figure out what was going on. When were we leaving? When were we coming? When were we going? How was my food always miraculously getting paid for and when was this happening?

On our way to Dilijan, we passed Lake Sevan. Kristina said that my eyes were the color of the lake.

Kristina doesn’t like to speak English. She has a complex about it. Naira said that you will never be able to speak perfectly unless you practice. Naira told a story of when she first lived in the U.S. and needed to buy some yeast, but didn’t know what it was called. Remember, this was back in the day before smartphones and Google Translate. She went up to the lately at the bakery and said, “I need something that will make my bread do like this,” and then she demonstrated an explosion. The store worker knew exactly what she meant.

Kristina speaks Russian with her mother-in-law (or mother-in-love) as she calls it. She said that at first this was intimidating for her, but gradually it became second nature. 

Listening to other people speak English very well makes me question whether I will ever stop sounding like a five-year-old in anyo other language besides English.

During our journey today, We scoped out three places today - a house, two buildings next two a gas station, and a guest house. Anahit translated what was going on, which was the only reason I understood anything. The objective of these visits was to scope out several clients’ places to see whether there is enough space to meet their solar panel needs. 

Sometimes if I know one or two words in an Armenian sentence (usually cognates), I can figure out most of what they are talking about. At the guest house, Anahit explained why I what I was going in Armenia and when she turned to translate what she had been saying to me, I responded by explaining what I thought she was talking about and I was somehow right. 

Naira really loves speaking in English. It turns out they raised their kids there. They all still live there. Her daughter just got married.

I asked about if all of the children spoke Armenian. Could they only speak it or also read and write it? The former. How long did it take Naira to learn English? Which country did she like better?

She loved the U.S. and longed for it incessantly. She missed the freedom. She was a very strong-minded woman and didn’t like the traditional mindset that everyone had here. I pointed out the common problem of Americans valuing work above family. She said it was hard when people constantly moved to different states for work. 

By the time we got to the guest house - our final stop - my focus had waned, so I stood aside talking to Naira. The residents that we encountered here were a young woman and man. I wasn’t sure if they were an item, but they were both very different looking, which caused me to become rather intrigued. Were both of them Armenian? I mean they both spoke Armenian. The girl had light hair and blue eyes. She looked Russian. The boy looked Middle Eastern and I wondered if he was half Iranian. My coworkers assured me they were Iranian. Long ago, Armenians were fair with light eyes and fair. That made sense for the girl, but as for the boy, it did not explain it.

While Naira and I chatted, she showed me a professionally done video from her daughter's wedding. They had the wedding in Armenia and it cost only a fraction of the price than it would in the U.S. I contemplated having my wedding in Armenia after that.

Her daughter had married an Iranian. Surrounded by three Muslims countries, Armenians don’t like Muslims. An Armenian marrying an Iranian is considered to be very taboo by Armenian standards. It turned out this Iranian was agnostic. He willingly got baptized to married Naira’s daughter. His parents seemed to be okay with it, although his mother at times came off as close-minded. 

When it was heard that Naira’s daughter was marrying an Iranian, family members that hadn’t contacted Naira in ages called to express their disdain. None of these aunts showed up to their wedding, mysteriously having to work or go on a sudden vacation. Naira didn’t care. Like most parents, she wanted her daughter to be happy. She disapproved of how so many Armenian men are babied and can’t do any sort of domesticated activity independent of a woman. Naira wanted her daughter to marry someone who she was happy with and not to marry someone just because they were Armenian.

Today while we were eating at a cafe, I realized I lost 10,000 drams and I was like crap. That’s only $20, but that’s a lot when you don’t have an income for three months. 

I was supposed to go to a panel today to talk to Armenian students about college in America. As I suspected, I was late arriving back to Yerevan, missing the event. As much as I have FOMO, I realize it’s dumb and I need to get over it because I can’t be everywhere all the time. Sometimes your calendar just doesn’t align. In fact, this entry is named Dilijan in dedication of that hike I never went on at the beginning of my time here. Now imagine the smallest violin in the world, from that Spongebob episode, playing.

On the way home, we fueled the car with propane. Everyone had to exit the car. There is a first for everything. 

Upon arrival back to Yerevan, Michael and I got out of the taxi. He met his girlfriend, who I met briefly. He directed me to the metro.

Upon arrival home, I walked in our apartment building as Zara was walking out. She had a dress and heels on. She said to me, “See. I don’t always look that terrible,” to which I laughed.

I had a glorious hour alone, which I used to call family. Mher then came home. I finished my interview with him for my assignment this week. I said that I didn’t want to go to watch football at English Park with him. He wonders why I am so boring and disciplined sometimes, not very fun. I simply explain, I have always been like this. And I have plans for the next five days straight and need to stay home and get all of my homework done. I explained that I am going to my friend’s house the day after tomorrow (I wish we had a word for that like they do in Russian). He said that I should use the word acquaintance. I say that I’m going to someone’s house who I just met. How are they my friend already? I explained that in my religion, we use that kind of terminology - friends, brother, sisters. But I did consider people my friends easily. Back in the day, I used to have this friend Joel, and I will always remember him telling me, “You use the word friend loosely.” I supposed it was true. This conversation circled back to “What is friendship?” Mher didn’t think I understood the real answer to this question. Alas, I am back in Usen’s class, answering profound philosophical questions in Russian. If only my Russian didn’t feel like it was constantly regressing. 
