---
layout: post
title: First Day of Class
---
The first year that I was in Kyrgyzstan (two years ago), I often woke up at 7:00 AM, which I habitually dreaded, although it was out of my own initiative. To get to school, I am now waking up at 6:40 AM, which, mind you, I am not too happy about.

Today was my first day of class, and for whatever reason, I didn’t have my afternoon classes, which are in English. I had all Russian classes all morning until about 1 PM, after which I finally felt hungry for the first time since I arrived. I think I am emotionally distressed to a degree, and it is making me not have an appetite, which I would, of course, have you know that my host family is not the slightest bit happy about. I try my best to explain that I don’t eat very much. I am trying to set the expectations low so that I don’t get noticeably fat again, like last time.

The way this program works is that I stay with a host family the first month and then move into a dorm (basically an apartment above the school) where all of maybe ten people at a time maximum live. Right now, one person lives there and she is leaving at the end of the week. The apartments are super central, which is a dream. And I got to check one out today and it was kind of nice, so I think I will move in there come my month’s end.

But how will I get through this month? My host dad just gave me a time frame during which I am to shower. No later than 8 PM. Meanwhile, I get home past 6. This was not a large window. This did not sit well with me.

My courses today were fun. The first lesson was grammar, which was not fun, and was annoying as usual. But my second two teachers just basically talked to me a lot, which was fun. They were super excited to have someone at as high of a level as I am, which is Advanced Intermediate, which is higher than I, too, was expecting. Well, I guess not. People keep asking me why I am here after all, since I already speak Russian. 

My second teacher was a Kyrgyz woman, Goolgaky (best spelling attempt in English), who had just been on a very active vacation. She confided that since she gave birth to her son two years ago, she has been unsuccessful in losing weight despite working out. I told her about how my stepmom lost a bunch of weight doing keto. I admitted that that was a hard diet to follow in a country with so much bread. This idea of mine was later confirmed by the lone 12 loaves of bread my host dad picked up on the way home from work/school.

I guess I failed to mention school because Masha, too, went to school. And it was really fancy and nice. I went in there with her. We were also the last to pick her up because we left at like 5:40. So I went in and said sorry we are late. And the worker goes, yes, you are late. Thank you, Mrs. Captain Obvious.

Back to Goolgaky. She really loves celebrity drama. She was heartbroken over Selena Gomez’s and Justin Beiber’s breakup. To tell you the truth, I’m not even sure I never knew they were together. She is so good at knowing things about culture, which I can’t relate to but I find it interesting and somewhat admirable – the level of commitment she displays in knowing these things. My homework is to watch a movie. I am procrastinating to do that as I am writing this. 
She loves Russian people and says they are good friends. She got her Master’s in Saint Petersburg  - a city that has her heart. She was having problems with her husband (then boyfriend) and thought she would never talk to him. It was 3 AM. She called Yulia, her Russian friend, who came over with a bottle of vodka and made her friend drink although she had never really drank. #icanrelate

Anyway, I liked her because she was interesting and easy to pay attention to. A nice upgrade from the detestable grammar lesson. Look. Grammar is essential. It doesn’t mean I like it.

Next was Aibek. He was probably in his 20’s. He was cool because he’s been to New Jersey and rode King da ka! He was in upstate NY on work and travel. I liked him because he would sometimes just tell me a word in English rather than explaining the whole meaning in Russian, which doesn’t always come across as clearly to me as a I would like. That’s called efficiency.

We actually talked about NASA quite a bit. Which reminds me…I had a placement interview in the morning, which I was late for #kyrgyztime Jk. My host family is Russian, not Kyrgyz…
And there were all these questions both philosophical and not. Some were about the state of affairs in the world, such as social, economic, and ecological problems. Thank God Snezhana, my Russian coworker, taught me the word for straws so that I was able to talk about how my restaurant started using paper instead of plastic straws because it’s good for the creatures of the ocean. But most of all, I had to talk about my future goals and my past experiences. I sometimes hate this question because the answer is so extensive. Yes. I have been in school for 7 years now, will be in school a total of 8 years, which makes me look like a deadbeat, except I studied abroad multiple times and interned at NASA three semesters, and had two other internships, and am now on my third second language, and have learned three other ones loosely on the side, so I am low-key “accomplished,” even though I am 23 with still no Bachelor’s degree to speak of. And there are very few people I can speak with who, when I try to casually drop the interned at NASA thing, they don’t look at me with shocked expressions of wide eyes and a mouth agape.

So while I explained all of this in my interview – how with Boren, I need to work for the government, and I plan to. It has good work life balance. Good retirement. I like NASA. I low key want to stay there forever until I retire, that is, if I can get back in. And Russian is important at NASA, except I can’t quite find a way to use it. Now that I’m thinking about it, I could probably go to HQ and somehow finagle a way to make the job I want. Let’s stick that on my vision board and make it come true.

But speaking with Aibek was super interesting, despite the fact that our coursework was overly easy because he thought I was intermediate mid, not advanced mid. In any event, we talked about NASA and their corporate contractors and Jeff Bezos and Blue Origin and Elon Musk’s Hyperloop and Baikonur’s Cosmodrome and NASA’s program office and Gateway. He was fairly knowledgeable and curious, which made for a good, productive conversation. We also talked about work-life balance as I explained government versus corporate work structures. We talked about how American women have children later because of a career focus. He asked me opinion on this. I said I think 30 is a little late. 28 sounds perfect to me. Here was yet another person being like, uh, why are you in this class if you’re fluent? #imnot I still don’t understand every word you say.

After this, I found the other American students outside. There was a clear segregation between the Americans and the native locals and I was thinking to myself, heck no. I will sit down and eat with those local people at some point. In any event, I ate a good restaurant with these American people, some of which I had already met at the Boren convocation. And two of with whom I yesterday saw Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (which was good until the gore at the end). We didn’t talk about anything particularly interesting. I did dispense some sort of consoling guidance to one nervous student who also new Arabic, which was dope. I decided I want to try and find an Arabic tutor here. And I decided I still want to try and work at English Zone. Anyway, these typical American college students are all hyped about drinking. And I’m like, oh, great. #crampingmystyle

So we ate a restaurant, viewed the dorms, and then went to a coffee shop. And I think I spent $10 eating out today. And the cheapo in me decided oh, no. That is too much for a day in Kyrgyzstan. 

I departed prior to 5 to hitch my daily ride. We had had a conversation about furniture and how expensive plastic was. I walked to the Frunze to verify that the plastics shelves were astronomically priced, which they were. Then my host dad came and got me outside as I was talking to my aunt about flight decisions I would soon need to make.

I went home, attempted to eat, which was met with much contempt at my lack of appetite. I showed Masha some videos of my little sister. I talked to Masha on the ride home and we taught each other new words in English and Russian, which was nice. I took a shower, apparently outside of my scheduled window, and that brings us here, to me sitting in my room, procrastinating to do homework. 
