With this being my third time to Kyrgyzstan, my “first” impressions this time around served as a comparison between what I was now experiencing and my previous memories. I forgot how simplistic the airport customs protocol was. Passport control looked nearly identical to what I had experienced at the border between Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan, which had been a more recent memory for me than that of Kyrgyzstan airport’s border control. Manas International Airport is one of those airports where you get bussed from your plane to the miniscule building that is the airport. There was only one luggage carousel, and with two flights coming in at the same time, many people stood there waiting. I was one of the last to claim my luggage. In fact, the carousel had stopped, and I had to walk all the way around to the other side to claim one bag and then the other. 
The first time I came to Kyrgyzstan, my program director was an American. This time I was met by a Kyrgyz national. He held a sign with my name, making him easy to spot. He apologized for his bad English. I, of course, as a language learner myself wasn’t the slightest bit offended. I explained that I already spoke Russian so he could speak to me in Russian if he preferred, which was another difference from my first time in Kyrgyzstan, approximately two years ago. I distinctly remember getting off the plane and feeling incredibly incompetent in my ability to speak Russian, so much so that I didn’t speak at all. I remember being scared of walking into stores and interacting with the shop keepers, and seeing their expressions of pity as they realized I was a helpless foreigner. 
The taxi ride to my host family residence was met with silence as is almost all transportation among Kyrgyz people. I asked a couple questions, such as if this shopping center was new. I pointed out where I used to live. This ride down through town painted vivid memories of previous times around town with friends as well as thoughts of how far outside of the city the airport felt, which was intensified by my memory of the time I missed my return flight home and had to wait at the airport for 10 hours for a new, significantly more expensive flight. I experienced all phases of a day at the airport, including a three-hour period of complete inactivity.
When I previously lived in Kyrgyzstan, I lived a little further south from the city center. Since many marshrutkas did not run directly by my house, public transportation (which was my preferred method of transportation) was at times a challenge. I was surprised to see that my new house was in an even less accessible location, and I virtually had a farm in my backyard. Fortunately, I was not left in the lurch. I was able to hitch a ride into the city with my host father, who works 8 to 5. 
On the day of my arrival, I went to my new school for my orientation, which was a walk around the school’s immediate vicinity with my program director. She was explaining to my host dad that he shouldn’t leave me alone in the city. She also explained to both of us that he should have had me take public transportation to the school so I knew how to do it. He explained that I’ve been here many times and I know what I’m doing, which was true.
After my brief tour, my host dad met me. I told him I needed to change money, get a new SIM card for my burner Kyrgyzstan smartphone (which I am now using three years strong) and that I wanted to buy a water filter. As usual, every native person will make fun of you for using a water filter since Bishkek is surrounding by mountains and has the cleanest water! “Yes, but I am not from here,” I uselessly try to point out. In any event, I bought a water filter my second day while independently walking around town. 
Because I had slept the majority of the time on both plane rides, and was expecting myself to be an experienced traveler by this point, immune to jet lag, I was surprised at how much I needed to sleep my first two days. I would sleep from approximately 3 PM or 7 PM until I’d wake up in the middle of the night, alert my family that I was doing well, and go back to sleep until 7 or 8 AM. I would sleep all afternoon and then sleep again all night until the appointed time for my host dad to drive me into Bishkek. My previous host family had a car, but rarely offered to drive me anywhere. Therefore, having a host dad to hitch a ride from was definitely a luxury. Plus, I think he enjoyed our conversations. 
My host dad would talk to me about all of his previous host students. He spoke a lot, and very highly, of Justin, who was from Alaska, in particular an area with many Russians. He spoke Russian very well, and always understood my host dad, Dimitri’s, sense of humor. I tried to explain that I don’t even understand sarcasm or most jokes in English, so don’t take it personally. By the second day of being with my host dad, he declared that I speak Russian even better than Justin. He rated me an 8 out of 10. I understand everything and I understand the meaning and can express myself. I am constantly surprising him and using words even he himself does not use. He kept asking me why am I even here if I already speak Russian. I said because my grammar is still suffering. I still don’t understand everything, and, last but not least, I did win a government scholarship to come here. The only time I didn’t understand my host dad was when he was making a joke, to which I started responding, “Oh, this is a joke, isn’t it?”
My host dad was asking me why I wasn’t married or have children yet. Because I am American and have a career focus, I would kindly explain, which was the same reason I couldn’t cook, which he found absolutely appalling. These were common conversation topics I was used to having with locals, and was, therefore, not the slightest bit taken aback.
A goal I often have abroad if to try to blend in as much as possible, which is always hard. I met a girl at a local store and asked her how she knew I was foreign. She said it was because I didn’t wear very much make up or do anything to my hair. I guess I would need to address my grooming to appear more local. I would give this a go.
The most difficult thing about coming to Kyrgyzstan for a third time was not having the same amount of excitement as I did each time I was in a new place for a study abroad program. Sure, I had many local friends, and felt comfortable, but nine months began to feel a little daunting. I felt a lack of independence living so far from the city. For the first time in my life, I began feeling homesick. I have a four-year-old sister at home who is not at an age where she finally began acknowledging my absences. She insisted on riding to the airport with my dad and I, even though she fell asleep fairly quickly on the way there. Despite having spent a lot of time with her this summer, I still felt a measure of guilt leaving her for what felt like such a long time. Walking around my second day in town, I had a hard time not getting a little choked up whenever I saw small children playing on playgrounds.
For this reason, I was hoping to meet my little host sister, a five-year-old, right away, but she was on vacation with her grandparents. I met my host mom and dad instead. It turned out that my host siblings were both abroad working – the sister in America, the brother in Bulgaria. With all of my friends being busy my second day around town, I had a hard time not feeling isolated. I walked around for a long time alone on Saturday wandering into shops that looked curious. I bought Russian books that interested me and that I planned to read and some school supplies. I tried foods, both new and familiar, despite having a lack of appetite. I knew I would probably feel better once my routine was established. My placement exam would be 8:00 AM Friday. I felt ready to start school and establish my formal Russian lessons routine. What I learned about myself these past two days is that I am only human. I am not immune to jet lag, nor homesickness. 
