---
layout: post
title: My First Meeting & Conquering Loneliness
---
The only social thing I did in my time here was go to the meeting. It was a congregation full of many older Russian babooshkas, as you may call them. My one friend Sasha, a school teacher, dipped pretty quickly after the meeting, but I met Sezim.

Going to the meeting made me happy because I could understand most things and reading quickly had become so easy that I could actually sing the songs and enjoy them. 

I tried to go out in service after the meeting, which backfired. But instead I talked to Sezim, a 25-year-old from a small town, living and working independently post-college in Bishkek. Raised with a Jehovah’s Witness mother and a Muslim father, Sezim, started studying with Jehovah’s Witnesses again two years ago. We walked by Cosmo Park (the movie theatre) together. She bought me ice cream, so I gave her a NASA post card and a NYC post card. It was of a sunset, similar to a picture she took from her city apartment’s window, as she showed me. She informed me that the assembly in Kant was coming up in two weeks. Great. Kant is like super far away from where I live. In any event, she said would accompany me. 

Once Sezim departed, I bought some books on the stree. (What else is new in this book hoarder’s life?) Two were for Chiquita (my sister, whose real name is Hazel). No one must have caught onto the fact that I was foreign because nobody tried to rip me off. In fact, one lady asked me how much I would pay. I said 100 soms ($1 and some change) because I saw a sign for that somewhere else. She goes, 80 soms, for a smart girl like me who is trying to learn something about her future. I was buying a book on happy marital relationships. Later I would buy a book about rearing children that I found in the supermarket. I am trying to find topics of interest to me so that I will actually feel inclined to read the book. 

I sat around in side of CosmoPark and tried to find some old friends who were available, which would yield fruitless. I waited until I gained enough of an appetite to eat a hamburger, which was the best place to get a hamburger in town in my opinion. My host dad had told me that all meet here is poison and that I am actually eating cats and dogs. I’m not sure if my stomach hurting later was coincidental, whether he had just gotten in my head, or whether he was right. In any event, the hamburger was still enjoyable in the moment.

I walked around comparing prices all day – at the pharmacy, at a fake Marshalls laden with Costco’s Kirkland brand clothes, and at the supermarket. Last but not least, I bought my water filter, to which my host dad was appalled, as usual. I talked to a girl at a stand in the VEFA (shopping mall) Center until he came back from a five-minute meeting with his boss. She asked me where I knew Russian from. In brief, here. She was studying tourism, and, therefore, English. I can’t get over the fact that most people I interact with don’t even acknowledge my blatant foreignness.

I went home, and laid on my bed – a joyous moment. I was asleep within the hour, waking up at midnight for some late-night conversations with American friends and family. Then I went back to sleep, only to be woken up to be sent into Bishkek with my host dad. I have to figure out how to get home today. I am dreading that. I found an isolated coffee shop where I can mooch off of their internet for hours on end since, guess what? I don’t have internet at home. I need to go meet with some other Boren scholarship students, but I got lazy and started having more fun writing about my feelings, a.k.a. turning in my assignments for my program, like this previous entry. How fun. Now I have more to work on. Double fun.
