---
layout: post
title: Quarantine Sentiment
---
I decided that for this page I’d like an excerpt of how I was feeling during this bizarre time to be alive. It’s been a year almost since this all started and the outlook, although initially bleak, was met with disbelief at how long this would go on for, that is, life as we never knew it. As I write this, I am sitting on a train, which I am now realizing is the first train I’ve been on since the time I took the train in Uzbekistan between Tashkent and Samarkand and then back again last January. As I am doing this, I am sincerely wondering to myself, how did I used to do this all the time? I HATE THIS. The embarrassing thing I’m admitting to myself right now is that a large part of me likes being home all the time. My spirit of adventure has been replaced by a feeling of duty to be with my family more and a newfound sense of love, that burns slowly and warmly like our woodfire stove. I realize now that even if I leave the house for half a day, if it’s without my dogs, I miss them. So as I am on the train, all I can think about is my dogs and how much I miss them. Now I am wondering if this is unhealthy and whether we’ll all have co-dependency issues that will be too hard to break once this is all over. Or will this never be over and we’ll continue working from home forever after?

I laid awake in bed last night for a brief moment, which is rare may I add, and I thought to myself: I don’t really want to go anywhere ever again. Perhaps this is sparking an identity crisis. I don’t know this person who doesn’t want to travel and allows fear of living away from home hamper her plans to have new experiences and feel more “alive.” Maybe this will all change in the future, but for now it confounds me. 

I appreciate the time I have now to do things like visit my grandparents every week or so at their home and eat with them and laugh with them about stupid stuff that happens in our family. I appreciate the three mornings a week I work out with my mom. I appreciate having fun playing Webkinz with Hazel. I spent so many years trying to not be around because it made me feel trapped and I didn’t like it. Well, now, quite literally, I am trapped. For the most part, I’m stuck in New Jersey. But the weird thing is that I like it. So maybe I will be a different person after this. I have a good life at home now and I like it, even if it has its low points some days. But on average, I’m happier. I’m less stressed and I am sitting here asking myself, what is it I never liked about spending time at home? And I do know the answer to that question, but alas, that is a question for a later discussion. 
